# pandas-challenge
My submission for Assignment 4.
## Overview
In this project, we will analyze standardized test results from a city's school-district to help the school district and mayor make strategic decisions regarding future budget allocation and priorities. We will create snapshots of key metrics including the following:

* total students
* total budget
* average math/reading scores
* percentage of students who passed math/reading
* percentage of students who passed both

We will analyze these metrics from a district wide perspective and school-by-school. We will look at math and reading scores by grade as well as top (and bottom) perfroming schools overall. Finally, we will check to see if there are any trends in scores when related to school spending, school size, or school type.

## Analysis
* Students who attend charter schools as opposed to district schools do significantly better on standardized tests. Not only are the top five performing schools charter schools and the bottom five performing schools district schools, the overall percentage of students who passed both reading and math is almost 40% higher at charter schools than their district counterparts on average.
* Schools who have a smaller per student budget tend to have higher scores. This is evident in the "scores by school spending" section. As school spending increases, student scores decrease.
* Although small and medium schools have similar performance, students who attend larger schools perform worse on average with a decreased passing rate 30% less than their smaller counterparts.

## References
* Module 4 Challenge Instructions
* Instructions and starter code, PyCitySchools_starter.ipynb. Dominic LaBella
* Data generated by Mockaroo, LLC. (2021) Realistic Data Generator. https://www.mockaroo.com/. Modified by Trilogy Education Services, LLC